usage: add Nix guide (#136)
Ultramarine-Linux/wiki: src/content/docs/en/usage/nix.mdx

---
title: Nix
description: "Getting Started with Nix on Ultramarine Linux"
---

Nix is a package manager aiming to provide reproducable development 
environments and builds by removing _dependency hell_. For us, this means

> no longer having to install `-devel` packages we only use occasionally,

Reviewer: you may wanna mention this is for advanced users

ephemeral shells that we can create for temporarily checking out utilities,
quickly assimilating into codebases with a `flake.nix` file, and more!

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Nix is mostly intended for advanced users, but this page should get you up to speed on the basics of Nix.

```

The world of Nix is vast and difficult to navigate, so let's see Nix in action

> with real-world examples

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
with real-world examples:
```

# Installing Nix

> Ultramarine Linux provides a nice little tweak for quickly installing Nix.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ultramarine provides a quick Nix installer. Simply run:
```

instead. If only there was a way to manage that elegantly (i.e not under 
`make` and `make install` that overwrites the system FFmpeg).

`nix flake init` in a folder, then paste this into `flake.nix` (overriding
the default):

```nix
{
  inputs = {
    nixpkgs.url = "github:NixOS/nixpkgs/nixos-unstable";
    flake-utils.url = "github:numtide/flake-utils";
  };
  outputs = { self, nixpkgs, flake-utils }:
    flake-utils.lib.eachDefaultSystem
      (system:
        let
          pkgs = import nixpkgs {
            inherit system;
            overlays = [
                (self: super: {ffmpeg = super.ffmpeg.override {
                    ## We define the build options here
                    withUnfree = true; 
                    withDav1d = true;
                    withFdkAac = true;
                };})
          };
        in
        with pkgs;
        {
          devShells.default = mkShell {
            buildInputs = [
                ffmpeg
            ];
          };
        }
      );
}
```

Then `nix develop`, wait, and bam! FFmpeg with all the nitty-gritty unfree
codecs~

# Real-world example 3: Working with a Nix project

TBD

# End

> With this piece, I hope you can see the value of the Nix package manager

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I hope you get some use out of Nix
```

> within Ultramarine Linux. Whether you're a poweruser or a developer, you'll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on Ultramarine. Whether you're a poweruser or a developer, you'll
```

find great power within Nix.

> 

Reviewer: i have some comments on this section generally
